CS482 Artificial Intelligence  
Project 2  
Jacob Tucker  
11/7/2021  

Task:  
Implement a Naive Bayes classification algorithm  
Make a training program that takes raw data as a .csv file and outputs two files;  
A .csv for word frequencies in ham messages and a .csv for word frequencies in spam messages  
Make a classify program that takes a .csv of raw data, the two .csv files generated by training  
and outputs a .csv file with the messages classified by the algorithm


Compiling:  
From jacob_tucker_proj_2/Code  
Make a build directory 

	mkdir build  
	
Move to that directory  

	cd build  
	
Run cmake and then make  

	cmake ..  
	make  
	
This will create two programs: training.cc and classify.cc  
  
Running:  
Run programs from the build directory. Both programs assume the files to be used are in the parent directory and automatically prepends "../" to the file names. The programs will also write to the parent directory, which should be Code/ if made in the build directory.  
  
training  
training take 6 arguments. Three flags and three file names.  
'-i' flag for the raw data input csv file to train the model.  
'-oh' flag for the name of the ham word frequency csv output file.  
'-os' flag for the name of the spam word frequency csv output file.  
Order of these arguments does not matter as long as the correct file name follows the correct flag.  
Correct Usage: ./training -i \<input file.csv\> -os \<spam output file.csv\> -oh \<ham output file.csv\>  
  
Example using the file names I chose for testing. trainingSpam.csv is the first 70% of spam.csv  

	./training -i trainingSpam.csv -os spamCount.csv -oh hamCount.csv 

classify  
classify takes 8 arguments. Four flags and four file names.  
'-i' flag for the raw data input csv file to test the model  
'-is' flag for the spam word frequency csv file generated by training  
'-ih' flag for the ham word frequency csv file generated by training  
'-o' flag for the name of the classification output csv file  
Correct Usage: ./classify -i \<data to test.csv\> -is \<spam output file from training.csv\> -ih \<ham output file from training.csv\> -o \<output file path.csv\>  
  
Example using the file names I chose for testing. testingSpam.csv is the last 30% of spam.csv  
	
	./classify -i testingSpam.csv -is spamCount.csv -ih hamCount.csv -o classOut.csv

This will create an output file in the parent directory with the original messages and the class defined by the algorithm.  
classify will also keep track of the correct number of classifications and print an accuracy percentage to the console.  
When ran with the training and testing files I used, the progam achieved a 96.93% accuracy.  
